---
# required metadata

title: Troubleshoot your on-premises scanner deployment
description: Instructions for troubleshooting your unified labeling on-premises scanner deployment
author: batamig
ms.author: bagol
manager: rkarlin
ms.date: 12/14/2020
ms.topic: reference
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.service: information-protection

# optional metadata

#ROBOTS:
#audience:
#ms.devlang:
ms.subservice: scanner
ms.reviewer: demizets
ms.suite: ems
#ms.tgt_pltfrm:
ms.custom: admin

---

# Troubleshooting your unified labeling on-premises scanner deployment

>***Applies to**: [Azure Information Protection](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/information-protection), Windows Server 2019, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2*
>
>***Relevant for**: [AIP unified labeling client only](faqs.md#whats-the-difference-between-the-azure-information-protection-classic-and-unified-labeling-clients).*

Use the content in this article to help you troubleshoot your on-premises scanner deployment:

## Troubleshooting a stopped scan

If the scanner stops in the middle unexpectedly, and doesn't complete scanning a large number of files in a repository, you may need to modify one of the following settings:

- **Number of dynamic ports**. You may need to increase the number of dynamic ports for the operating system hosting the files. Server hardening for SharePoint can be one reason why the scanner exceeds the number of allowed network connections, and therefore stops.

    To check whether this is the cause of the scanner stopping, look to see if the following error message is logged for the scanner in the  **%*localappdata*%\Microsoft\MSIP\Logs\MSIPScanner.iplog** file.

    **Unable to connect to the remote server ---> System.Net.Sockets.SocketException: Only one usage of each socket address (protocol/network address/port) is normally permitted IP:port**

    > [!NOTE]
    > This file will be zipped if there are multiple logs.

    For more information about how to view the current port range and increase the range, see [Settings that can be Modified to Improve Network Performance](/biztalk/technical-guides/settings-that-can-be-modified-to-improve-network-performance).

- **List view threshold.** For large SharePoint farms, you may need to increase the list view threshold. By default, the list view threshold is set to 5,000.

    For more information, see [Manage large lists and libraries in SharePoint](https://support.office.com/article/manage-large-lists-and-libraries-in-sharepoint-b8588dae-9387-48c2-9248-c24122f07c59#__bkmkchangelimit&ID0EAABAAA=Server).

## Troubleshooting using the scanner diagnostic tool

If you're having issues with the Azure Information Scanner, verify whether your deployment is healthy using the following PowerShell command:

```PowerShell
Start-AIPScannerDiagnostics
```

The diagnostics tool checks the following details and then exports a log file with the results:

- Whether the database is up to date
- Whether network URLs are accessible
- Whether there's a valid authentication token and the policy can be acquired
- Whether the profile is defined in the Azure portal
- Whether offline/online configuration exists and can be acquired
- Whether the rules configured are valid

> [!TIP]
> If you are running the command under a user that is not the scanner user, be sure to add the **-OnBehalf** parameter. 
>

> [!NOTE]
> The **Start-AIPScannerDiagnostics** tool does not run a full prerequisites check. If you're having issues with the scanner, also ensure that your system complies with [scanner requirements](deploy-aip-scanner-prereqs.md), and that your [scanner configuration and installation](deploy-aip-scanner-configure-install.md) is complete.
>

## Scanner error reference

Use the following sections to understand specific error messages generated by the scanner, and troubleshooting or workaround actions to fix the issue:

- [Error occurred while sending the request](#error-occurred-while-sending-the-request)
- [NoAuthTokenException: Client application failed to provide authentication token for HTTP request](#noauthtokenexception-client-application-failed-to-provide-authentication-token-for-http-request)
- [Authentication token not accepted](#authentication-token-not-accepted)
- [Scanner failed to download the DLP policy](#scanner-failed-to-download-the-dlp-policy)
- [Error for a mismatched schema](#error-for-a-mismatched-schema)
- [Missing content scan job or profile](#missing-content-scan-job-or-profile)
- [Policy doesn't include any automatic labeling condition](#policy-doesnt-include-any-automatic-labeling-condition)

### Error occurred while sending the request

**Error message**

`[System.Net.Http.HttpRequestException: An error occurred while sending the request. ---> System.Net.WebException: The underlying connection was closed: An unexpected error occurred on a send. ---> System.IO.IOException: Unable to read data from the transport connection: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host. ---> System.Net.Sockets.SocketException: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host`

**Workaround**

This error usually means that TLS 1.2 is not enabled.

For more information, see [Firewalls and network infrastructure](requirements.md#firewalls-and-network-infrastructure). 

To enable TLS 1.2, see [How to enable TLS 1.2](/mem/configmgr/core/plan-design/security/enable-tls-1-2-client) in the Enterprise Mobility + Security documentation.

### NoAuthTokenException: Client application failed to provide authentication token for HTTP request

**Error message**

`Microsoft.InformationProtection.Exceptions.NoAuthTokenException: Client application failed to provide authentication token for HTTP request. Failed with: System.AggregateException: One or more errors occurred. ---> Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.AdalException: user_interaction_required: One of two conditions was encountered: 1. The PromptBehavior.Never flag was passed, but the constraint could not be honored, because user interaction was required. 2. An error occurred during a silent web authentication that prevented the http authentication flow from completing in a short enough time frame`

**Workaround**

Make sure that you're authenticating using a token. When you run the [Set-AIPAuthentication](/powershell/module/azureinformationprotection/set-aipauthentication) command, make sure you use the token parameter on behalf of the scanner user.

For example:

```powershell
$pscreds = Get-Credential CONTOSO\scanner
Set-AIPAuthentication -AppId "77c3c1c3-abf9-404e-8b2b-4652836c8c66" -AppSecret "OAkk+rnuYc/u+]ah2kNxVbtrDGbS47L4" -DelegatedUser scanner@contoso.com -TenantId "9c11c87a-ac8b-46a3-8d5c-f4d0b72ee29a" -OnBehalfOf $pscreds
Acquired application access token on behalf of CONTOSO\scanner.
```

For more information, see [Get an Azure AD token for the scanner](deploy-aip-scanner-configure-install.md#get-an-azure-ad-token-for-the-scanner).

### Authentication token not accepted

**Error message**

`Microsoft.InformationProtection.Exceptions.AccessDeniedException: The service didn't accept the auth token.`

**Workaround**

If the [Set-AIPAuthentication](/powershell/module/azureinformationprotection/set-aipauthentication) command failed, make sure to define the permissions correctly in the Azure portal.

For more information, see [Create and configure the Azure AD applications for Set-AIPAuthentication](rms-client/clientv2-admin-guide-powershell.md#to-create-and-configure-the-azure-ad-applications-for-set-aipauthentication).

### Scanner failed to download the DLP policy

**Error message**

`DownloadDlpPolicy failed`

**Workaround**

Check for errors with your authentication token, and refer to the relevant section for that error.

If there are no token errors, make sure that the Date format on the scanner computer is set to use a slash (**/**).

For example, your dates should appear as **12/9/2020,** and not **12.9.2020** or **12-9-2020.**

### Error for a mismatched schema

**Error message**

`SchemaMismatchException`

**Workaround**

Run the [Update-AIPScanner](/powershell/module/azureinformationprotection/Update-AIPScanner) command to resynchronize your schemas.

### Missing content scan job or profile

If errors are shown that indicate that your content scan job or profile cannot be found, check your scanner configuration in the Azure portal.

For more information, see [Configuring and installing the  Azure Information Protection unified labeling scanner](deploy-aip-scanner-configure-install.md). 

> [!NOTE]
> A *profile* is a legacy scanner term that has been replaced by the scanner cluster and content scan job in newer versions of the scanner.
> 

### Policy doesn't include any automatic labeling condition

If you get errors about your labeling policy missing automatic labeling conditions, you may need to check the settings in your content scan job or your labeling policy, or verify that your policy is accessible.

|Workaround  |Details  |
|---------|---------|
|**Check your content scan job settings**     | In the Azure portal, do the following: <br> <br>- [Set the **Info types to be discovered** to **All**](deploy-aip-scanner-configure-install.md#identify-all-custom-conditions-and-known-sensitive-information-types)  <br>- [Define a default label to be applied when scanning](#apply-a-default-label-to-all-files-in-a-data-repository)      |
|**Check your labeling policy settings**     |  in your labeling admin center, such as the Microsoft 365 Security & Compliance Center, do the following: <br> <br>- [Define a default sensitivity label](/microsoft-365/compliance/create-sensitivity-labels#publish-sensitivity-labels-by-creating-a-label-policy)  <br> - [Define automatic / recommended labeling rules](/microsoft-365/compliance/apply-sensitivity-label-automatically)       |
|**Verify that your policy is accessible**     | If your settings are defined as expected, the policy file itself may be missing or inaccessible, such as when there's a timeout from the Microsoft 365 Security & Compliance Center. <br>  <br>To verify your policy file, check that the following file exists: **%localappdata%\Microsoft\MSIP\mip\MSIP.Scanner.exe\mip\mip.policies.sqlite3**        |
| | |

For more information, see [What is the Azure Information Protection unified labeling scanner?](deploy-aip-scanner.md) and [Learn about sensitivity labels](/microsoft-365/compliance/sensitivity-labels).

### Database schema is not up to date

**Error message:**

If you've upgraded your scanner installation but the database schema was not updated in parallel, the following error is shown in the Azure portal: **Error: DB schema is not up to date**

**Workaround**

Run the [Update-AIPScanner](/powershell/module/azureinformationprotection/update-aipscanner) command on one of the nodes in the cluster to ensure that the database is up-to-date.


### Scanner diagnostics errors

If you get errors running the [Start-AIPDiagnostics](/powershell/module/azureinformationprotection/start-aipscannerdiagnostics) command, make sure that you're using the correct scanner account credentials in the **-OnBehalf** parameter.

For example:

```powershell
$scanner_account_creds= Get-Credential
Start-AIPScannerDiagnostics -onbehalf $scanner_account_creds
```