---
title: class PolicyEngine::Settings 
description: Documents the policyengine::settings class of the Microsoft Information Protection (MIP) SDK.
author: BryanLa
ms.service: information-protection
ms.topic: reference
ms.author: bryanla
ms.date: 11/15/2021
---

# class PolicyEngine::Settings 
Defines the settings associated with a PolicyEngine.
  
## Summary
 Members                        | Descriptions                                
--------------------------------|---------------------------------------------
public Settings(const std::string& engineId, const std::shared_ptr\<AuthDelegate\>& authDelegate, const std::string& clientData, const std::string& locale, bool loadSensitivityTypes)  |  PolicyEngine::Settings constructor for loading an existing engine.
public Settings(const Identity& identity, const std::shared_ptr\<AuthDelegate\>& authDelegate, const std::string& clientData, const std::string& locale, bool loadSensitivityTypes)  |  PolicyEngine::Settings constructor for creating a new engine.
public const std::string& GetEngineId() const  |  Get the engine ID.
public void SetEngineId(const std::string& id)  |  Set the engine ID.
public const Identity& GetIdentity() const  |  Get the Identity object.
public void SetIdentity(const Identity& identity)  |  Set the Identity object.
public const std::string& GetClientData() const  |  Get the Client Data set in the settings.
public void SetClientData(const std::string& clientData)  |  Set the Client Data string.
public const std::string& GetLocale() const  |  Get the Locale set in the settings.
public void SetCustomSettings(const std::vector\<std::pair\<std::string, std::string\>\>& customSettings)  |  Set the custom settings, used for feature gating and testing.
public const std::vector\<std::pair\<std::string, std::string\>\>& GetCustomSettings() const  |  Get the custom settings, used for feature gating and testing.
public void SetSessionId(const std::string& sessionId)  |  Set the session ID, used for client defined telemetry and to make it easier to correlate application events with the corresponding policy service REST requests.
public const std::string& GetSessionId() const  |  Get the session ID, a unique identifier.
public bool IsLoadSensitivityTypesEnabled() const  |  Get the the flag indicating if load sensitivity labels is enabled.
public void SetCloud(Cloud cloud)  |  Optionally sets the target cloud.
public Cloud GetCloud() const  |  Gets the target cloud used by all service requests.
public void SetCloudEndpointBaseUrl(const std::string& cloudEndpointBaseUrl)  |  Sets the cloud endpoint base URL for custom cloud.
public const std::string& GetCloudEndpointBaseUrl() const  |  Gets the cloud base URL used by all service requests, if specified.
public void SetDelegatedUserEmail(const std::string& delegatedUserEmail)  |  Sets the delegated user.
public const std::string& GetDelegatedUserEmail() const  |  Gets the delegated user.
public void SetLabelFilter(const std::vector\<LabelFilterType\>& deprecatedLabelFilters)  |  Sets the label filter.
public const std::vector\<LabelFilterType\>& GetLabelFilter() const  |  Gets the label filters set through deprecated function SetLabelFilter.
public void ConfigureFunctionality(FunctionalityFilterType functionalityFilterType, bool enabled)  |  Enables or disables functionality.
public const std::map\<FunctionalityFilterType, bool\>& GetConfiguredFunctionality() const  |  Gets the configured functionality.
public void SetVariableTextMarkingType(VariableTextMarkingType variableTextMarkingType)  |  Sets the variable text marking type.
public VariableTextMarkingType GetVariableTextMarkingType() const  |  Gets the variable text marking type.
public void SetAuthDelegate(const std::shared_ptr\<AuthDelegate\>& authDelegate)  |  Set the Engine Auth Delegate.
public std::shared_ptr\<AuthDelegate\> GetAuthDelegate() const  |  Get the Engine Auth Delegate.
public const std::shared_ptr\<void\>& GetLoggerContext() const  |  Get logger context that will be opaquely passed to the logger delegate for logs associated with the created engine.
public void SetLoggerContext(const std::shared_ptr\<void\>& loggerContext)  |  Sets the logger context that will be opaquely passed to the logger delegate for logs associated with the created engine.
  
## Members
  
### Settings function
PolicyEngine::Settings constructor for loading an existing engine.

Parameters:  
* **engineId**: Set it to the unique engine ID generated by AddEngineAsync or one self-generated. When loading an existing engine, reuse the ID else a new engine will be created. 


* **authDelegate**: The authentication delegate used by the SDK to acquire authentication tokens, will override the PolicyProfile::Settings::authDelegate if both provided 


* **clientData**: customizable client data that can be stored with the engine when unloaded, can be retrieved from a loaded engine. 


* **locale**: engine localizable output will be provided in this locale. 


* **Optional**: flag indicating when the engine is loaded should load also custom sensitivity types, if true OnPolicyChange Observer on the profile will be invoked on updates to custom sensitivity types as well as policy changes. if false ListSensitivityTypes call will always return an empty list.


  
### Settings function
PolicyEngine::Settings constructor for creating a new engine.

Parameters:  
* **identity**: Identity info of the user associated with the new engine. 


* **authDelegate**: The authentication delegate used by the SDK to acquire authentication tokens, will override the PolicyProfile::Settings::authDelegate if both provided 


* **clientData**: customizable client data that can be stored with the engine when unloaded, can be retrieved from a loaded engine. 


* **locale**: engine localizable output will be provided in this locale. 


* **Optional**: flag indicating when the engine is loaded should load also custom sensitivity types, if true OnPolicyChange Observer on the profile will be invoked on updates to custom sensitivity types as well as policy changes. if false ListSensitivityTypes call will always return an empty list.


  
### GetEngineId function
Get the engine ID.

  
**Returns**: A unique string identifying the engine.
  
### SetEngineId function
Set the engine ID.

Parameters:  
* **id**: engine ID.


  
### GetIdentity function
Get the Identity object.

  
**Returns**: A reference to the identity in the settings object. 
  
**See also**: mip::Identity
  
### SetIdentity function
Set the Identity object.

Parameters:  
* **identity**: the unique identity of a user. 


  
**See also**: mip::Identity
  
### GetClientData function
Get the Client Data set in the settings.

  
**Returns**: A string of data specified by the client.
  
### SetClientData function
Set the Client Data string.

Parameters:  
* **clientData**: user specified data.


  
### GetLocale function
Get the Locale set in the settings.

  
**Returns**: The locale.
  
### SetCustomSettings function
Set the custom settings, used for feature gating and testing.

Parameters:  
* **customSettings**: List of name/value pairs.


  
### GetCustomSettings function
Get the custom settings, used for feature gating and testing.

  
**Returns**: List of name/value pairs.
  
### SetSessionId function
Set the session ID, used for client defined telemetry and to make it easier to correlate application events with the corresponding policy service REST requests.

Parameters:  
* **sessionId**: An identifier (usually specified as a GUID) to uniquely identify this operation.


  
### GetSessionId function
Get the session ID, a unique identifier.

  
**Returns**: The session ID.
  
### IsLoadSensitivityTypesEnabled function
Get the the flag indicating if load sensitivity labels is enabled.

  
**Returns**: True if enabled else false.
  
### SetCloud function
Optionally sets the target cloud.

Parameters:  
* **cloud**: Cloud


If cloud is not specified, then it will default to commercial cloud.
  
### GetCloud function
Gets the target cloud used by all service requests.

  
**Returns**: Cloud
  
### SetCloudEndpointBaseUrl function
Sets the cloud endpoint base URL for custom cloud.

Parameters:  
* **cloudEndpointBaseUrl**: the base URL used by all service requests (for example, "https://dataservice.protection.outlook.com")


This value will only be read and must be set for Cloud = Custom
  
### GetCloudEndpointBaseUrl function
Gets the cloud base URL used by all service requests, if specified.

  
**Returns**: Base URL
  
### SetDelegatedUserEmail function
Sets the delegated user.

Parameters:  
* **delegatedUserEmail**: the delegation email.


A delegated user is specified when the authenticating user/application is acting on behalf of another user
  
### GetDelegatedUserEmail function
Gets the delegated user.

  
**Returns**: Delegated user
A delegated user is specified when the authenticating user/application is acting on behalf of another user
  
### SetLabelFilter function
Sets the label filter.

Parameters:  
* **labelFilter**: the label filter.


Labels are by default filter to scope, this api is to allow filtering by possible actions. 
If not set HyokProtection and DoubleKeyProtection are filtered.
  
### GetLabelFilter function
Gets the label filters set through deprecated function SetLabelFilter.

  
**Returns**: The label filter.
Labels are by default filter to scope, this api is to allow filtering by possible actions.
  
### ConfigureFunctionality function
Enables or disables functionality.

Parameters:  
* **functionalityFilterType**: the type of functionality. 


* **enabled**: True to enable, false to disable


HyokProtection, DoubleKeyProtection, DoubleKeyUserDefinedProtection are disabled by default and must be enabled
  
### GetConfiguredFunctionality function
Gets the configured functionality.

  
**Returns**: A map of the types to a boolean value indicating whether or not it is enabled
  
### SetVariableTextMarkingType function
Sets the variable text marking type.

Parameters:  
* **variableTextMarkingType**: the variable text marking type.


  
### GetVariableTextMarkingType function
Gets the variable text marking type.

  
**Returns**: The variable text marking type.
  
### SetAuthDelegate function
Set the Engine Auth Delegate.

Parameters:  
* **authDelegate**: the Auth delegate


  
### GetAuthDelegate function
Get the Engine Auth Delegate.

  
**Returns**: The Engine Auth Delegate.
  
### GetLoggerContext function
Get logger context that will be opaquely passed to the logger delegate for logs associated with the created engine.

  
**Returns**: The logger context
  
### SetLoggerContext function
Sets the logger context that will be opaquely passed to the logger delegate for logs associated with the created engine.

Parameters:  
* **loggerContext**: The logger context

